Add new Reset Handlers (#2219)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/sdk/dotnet/advanced-guides/client-reset.txt

.. _dotnet-client-resets:

````````````````````````
Client Resets - .NET SDK

> ````````````````````````

Reviewer: this should not be changed.

Author: doh!

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 3
   :class: singlecol

> When using :ref:`Device Sync <sync>`, it is possible that your client app will 

Reviewer 2: This intro needs to be completely re-rewritten as it is
1. wrong: a destructive schema change is unmanageable by the new reset handlers. When that happens the only thing that can be done is falling back to the manual mode if you've selected any automatic recovery strategy, otherwise it'd have been manual anyway.
The Atlas documentation has a good [list](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/sync/error-handling/client-resets/) on the possible client reset errors, this is good for inspiration for the intro.
2. obsolete: it mostly talks about the times of manual recovery only. Now, there's no need to restart the app if you use any of the new handlers. All notifications remain hooked. Of course, in the remote case that an error occurs during recovery (maybe a breaking schema change) and the manual fallback is needed; then yes, the app needs to be restarted and until then any new piece of data that's added to the realm will be lost upon restart.

Note to give some background: the application does not necessarily need to be restarted in the case of a manual reset, as long as the developer carefully follows the tedious [steps](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm/sdk/node/advanced/client-reset-data-recovery/) that we suggest.

Author: Thanks for pointing out that we've already covered this in the atlas side. Rather than duplicate the content (which we try to avoid), I've borrowed the intro and then point people to the atlas docs.

   :depth: 3
   :class: singlecol

A client reset error is a scenario where a client realm cannot sync 
data with the application backend. Clients in this state may continue to 
run and save data locally but cannot send or receive sync changesets 
until they perform a client reset. The Realm SDKs provide methods to 
automatically handle client resets under most scenarios.

For more information, see :ref:`client-resets`.

In the .NET SDK, you can specify a client 
reset strategy in your :dotnet-sdk:`FlexibleSyncConfiguration <reference/Realms.Sync.FlexibleSyncConfiguration.html>`
and :dotnet-sdk:`PartitionSyncConfiguration <reference/Realms.Sync.PartitionSyncConfiguration.html>`.
The :dotnet-sdk:`ClientResetHandler <reference/Realms.Sync.SyncConfigurationBase.html#Realms_Sync_SyncConfigurationBase_ClientResetHandler>` 
property can be set to one of the following:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 30 30 50
   
   * - Handler
     - Strategy
     - Notes

   * - :dotnet-sdk:`RecoverOrDiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.RecoverOrDiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.html>`
       (Default)
     - Recover all unsynced local changes

>      - If recovery fails, this handler falls back to the DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - If recovery fails, this handler falls back to the ``DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler``, 
```

       which deletes all unsynced local changes. If the DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler 
       recovery fails, the handler falls back to a ManualRecoveryHandler, which
       requires you to implement a recovery strategy.

   * - :dotnet-sdk:`RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler.html>`
     - Recover all unsynced local changes

>      - If recovery fails, this handler falls back to a ManualRecoveryHandler, which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - If recovery fails, this handler falls back to a ``ManualRecoveryHandler``, which
```

       requires you to implement a recovery strategy.

   * - :dotnet-sdk:`DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.html>`
     - Discard unsynced changes
     - This strategy *permanently deletes* all local unsynced changes made since 
       the last successful sync.

   * - :dotnet-sdk:`ManualRecoveryHandler <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.ManualRecoveryHandler.html>`
     - Manual recovery
     - Provides a way for you to implement your own recovery strategy.

Client Reset Strategies
-----------------------

The following sections describe the different strategies for handling a client 
reset and how you can use each of the ``ClientResetHandlers``.

Recover All Unsynced Local Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This strategy attempts to recover all unsynced local changes automatically. There 

> are two client reset handlers that take this approach:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are two client reset handlers that take this approach, 
``RecoverOrDiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler`` and ``RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler``.
```

colon before 2 sections was reading odd to me

Author: It's grammatically more correct.

RecoverOrDiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler
``````````````````````````````````````

This is the default handler, as it provides the most robust recovery process. If 

> the automatic recovery process fails, it falls back to the DiscardLocalReset 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the automatic recovery process fails, it falls back to the ``DiscardLocalReset`` 
```

strategy explained below. If that process fails, it falls back again to a 

> manual reset strategy. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
manual reset strategy explained in the :ref:`Manual Recovery section <dotnet-client-reset-manual-recovery>`. 
```

This handler provides the following callback methods:

- :dotnet-sdk:`OnBeforeReset 
  <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.RecoverOrDiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.html#Realms_Sync_ErrorHandling_RecoverOrDiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler_OnBeforeReset>`, 
  which the SDK invokes prior to the client reset. You can use this callback to notify 

>   the user before the reset begins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the user before the client reset begins.
```

nit

  which the SDK invokes only if the automatic client reset fails **and** the discard 
  local strategy succeeds. If the discard strategy fails, this callback is not 
  invoked.

- :dotnet-sdk:`ManualResetFallback 
  <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.html>`, 
  which the SDK invokes only if the automatic 
  recovery and the discard strategy have failed. You implement this callback to 
  handle the reset failure. Your logic here should 
  be similar to that described for a 
  :ref:`ManualRecoveryHandler <manual_recovery_handler>`.

The following example shows using each of these callbacks:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/dotnet/ClientResetExamples.snippet.RecoverOrDiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.cs
   :language: csharp

RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler
`````````````````````````````

Like the ``RecoverOrDiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler``, this handler attempts to 
recover all unsynced local changes automatically. However, unlike  
``RecoverOrDiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler``, this handler does not fall back to a

> DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler if the automatic recovery fails. The handler 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler`` if the automatic recovery fails. The handler 
```

provides the following callback methods:

- :dotnet-sdk:`OnBeforeReset 
  <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler.html#Realms_Sync_ErrorHandling_RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler_OnBeforeReset>`, 
  which you can use to notify the user before the reset begins.

- :dotnet-sdk:`OnAfterReset 
  <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler.html#Realms_Sync_ErrorHandling_RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler_OnAfterReset>`, 
  which you can use to notify the user when the reset has completed successfully.

- :dotnet-sdk:`ManualResetFallback 
  <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler.html#Realms_Sync_ErrorHandling_RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler_ManualResetFallback>`, 
  which you implement to handle a reset failure. Your logic here should  
  be similar to that described for a 

>   :ref:`ManualRecoveryHandler <manual_recovery_handler>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :ref:`ManualRecoveryHandler <dotnet-client-reset-manual-recovery>`.
```

again updated per ref rename suggestion below

The following example shows using each of these callbacks:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/dotnet/ClientResetExamples.snippet.RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler.cs
   :language: csharp

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. _dotnet-client-reset-discard-unsynced-changes:

```

Reviewer: needed for above suggestion

Discard Unsynced Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This strategy **permanently deletes** all local unsynced changes 
made since the last successful sync. If you choose to use a 
``DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler``, the SDK restores your local realm file 
to a syncable state without closing the realm and while keeping notifications 

> fully working. This handler provides the following callback methods:

Reviewer: again worth calling out here that falls back to manual if fails

- :dotnet-sdk:`OnBeforeReset 
  <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.html#Realms_Sync_ErrorHandling_DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler_OnBeforeReset>`, 
  which the SDK invokes prior to the client reset. You can use this callback to 
  notify the user before the reset begins.

- :dotnet-sdk:`OnAfterReset 
  <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.html#Realms_Sync_ErrorHandling_DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler_OnAfterReset>`, 
  which the SDK invokes if *and only if* the reset completes successfully. 
  You can use it to notify the user when the reset is complete.

- :dotnet-sdk:`ManualResetFallback <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.html#Realms_Sync_ErrorHandling_DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler_ManualResetFallback>`,
  which the SDK invokes if the reset fails. Your logic here should  
  be similar to that described for a 
  :ref:`ManualRecoveryHandler <manual_recovery_handler>`.

The following example shows how you might implement a 
``DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler``:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/dotnet/ClientResetExamples.snippet.DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.cs
   :language: csharp

> .. _manual_recovery_handler:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _dotnet-client-reset-manual-recovery:
```

let's rename the ref to be more .NET specific

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. _dotnet-client-reset-manual-recovery:

```

needed for above suggestion

Manual Recovery
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In most cases, you should use one of the other strategies for client resets. For 
those infrequent cases where you need to customize your data recovery process, 
select the 
:dotnet-sdk:`ManualRecoveryHandler <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.ManualRecoveryHandler.html#Realms_Sync_ErrorHandling_ManualRecoveryHandler__ctor_Realms_Sync_ErrorHandling_ClientResetHandlerBase_ClientResetCallback_>` 
handler. 

.. note:: Fallbacks

   While the manual strategy should only be used in edge cases, the other 

>    handlers might fall back to a manual strategy (as in the case of a destructive 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   client reset handlers might fall back to a manual strategy (as in the case of a destructive 
```

>    handlers might fall back to a manual strategy (as in the case of a destructive 

Reviewer: rather than just saying "**might** fall back", can you list out reasons that this fallback would happen somewhere on this page, and link to that here?

Author: Linked above. Removed that from here because it would require duplicating that info from above.

Reviewer: i don't understand. there's no link here.

Author: Sorry. In the introduction we have 
> For more information, see :ref:`client-resets`.
and that page lists all the possible fallback reasons. 
That being said, I added some more verbage around that link to make it stand out more.

   * - :dotnet-sdk:`RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler.html>`
     - Recover all unsynced local changes
     - If recovery fails, this handler falls back to a ``ManualRecoveryHandler``, 
       which requires you to implement a manual recovery strategy.

   * - :dotnet-sdk:`DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.html>`
     - Discard unsynced changes
     - This strategy *permanently deletes* all local unsynced changes made since 
       the last successful sync.

   * - :dotnet-sdk:`ManualRecoveryHandler <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.ManualRecoveryHandler.html>`
     - Manual recovery
     - Provides a way for you to implement your own recovery strategy.

Client Reset Strategies
-----------------------

The following sections describe the different strategies for handling a client 
reset and how you can use each of the ``ClientResetHandlers``.

Recover All Unsynced Local Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This strategy attempts to recover unsynced local changes automatically.
There are two client reset handlers that take this approach, 

> ``RecoverOrDiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler`` and ``RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler``.

Reviewer: in this section before talking about the specific handlers, would be good to have this list of rules for how recovery works (taken from swift SDK PR) - https://github.com/mongodb/docs-realm/pull/2201/files#diff-027a914f37b160481128a667fc0d4d3113e69a54961a9a853a935a0f85eca124

since those changes aren't yet merged, you could just add the same includes file in your PR.

Reviewer: see additional comment about the implementation of this - https://github.com/mongodb/docs-realm/pull/2219#discussion_r1001033092

> 

Reviewer: somewhere around here could also be a good place to include information about how recovery handles schema changes, per this Swift PR section - https://github.com/mongodb/docs-realm/pull/2201/files#diff-7222b1cdc48202d0ee36628a37eadea727946199c608883ab62b9d48e2bea92dR153

Reviewer: where was this content added? couldn't find

Reviewer: was this addressed?

  which the SDK invokes only if the automatic client reset fails *and* the discard 
  local strategy succeeds. If the discard strategy fails, this callback is not 
  invoked.

- :dotnet-sdk:`ManualResetFallback 
  <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.html>`, 
  which the SDK invokes only if the automatic 
  recovery and the discard strategy have failed. You implement this callback to 
  handle the reset failure. Your logic here should 
  be similar to that described for a 
  :ref:`ManualRecoveryHandler <dotnet-client-reset-manual-recovery>`.

The following example shows using each of these callbacks:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/dotnet/ClientResetExamples.snippet.RecoverOrDiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.cs
   :language: csharp

RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler
`````````````````````````````

Like the ``RecoverOrDiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler``, this handler attempts to 
recover all unsynced local changes automatically. However, unlike  
``RecoverOrDiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler``, this handler does not fall back to a
``DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler`` if the automatic recovery fails. Instead, it 

> falls back again to a manual reset strategy explained in the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
falls back to a manual reset strategy explained in the 
```

not sure why "again" was there

  <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler.html#Realms_Sync_ErrorHandling_RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler_OnAfterReset>`, 
  which you can use to notify the user when the reset has completed successfully.

- :dotnet-sdk:`ManualResetFallback 
  <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler.html#Realms_Sync_ErrorHandling_RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler_ManualResetFallback>`, 
  which you implement to handle a reset failure. Your logic here should  
  be similar to that described for a 
  :ref:`ManualRecoveryHandler <dotnet-client-reset-manual-recovery>`.

The following example shows using each of these callbacks:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/dotnet/ClientResetExamples.snippet.RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler.cs
   :language: csharp

.. _dotnet-client-reset-discard-unsynced-changes:

Discard Unsynced Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This strategy **permanently deletes** all local unsynced changes 
made since the last successful sync. If you choose to use a 
``DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler``, the SDK restores your local realm file 
to a syncable state without closing the realm and while keeping notifications 

> fully working. If this process fails, , it falls back again to a manual reset 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fully working. If this process fails, it falls back again to a manual reset 
```

     - Recover all unsynced local changes
     - If recovery fails, this handler falls back to the ``DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler``, 
       which deletes all unsynced local changes. If the ``DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler`` 
       recovery fails, the handler falls back to a ``ManualRecoveryHandler``, which
       requires you to implement a manual recovery strategy.

   * - :dotnet-sdk:`RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler.html>`
     - Recover all unsynced local changes
     - If recovery fails, this handler falls back to a ``ManualRecoveryHandler``, 
       which requires you to implement a manual recovery strategy.

   * - :dotnet-sdk:`DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.html>`
     - Discard unsynced changes
     - This strategy *permanently deletes* all local unsynced changes made since 
       the last successful sync.

   * - :dotnet-sdk:`ManualRecoveryHandler <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.ManualRecoveryHandler.html>`
     - Manual recovery
     - Provides a way for you to implement your own recovery strategy.

Client Reset Strategies

> -----------------------

Reviewer: i think to call this section "Client Reset Strategies" is a misnomer. This section is only talking about **Client Recovery**. 

maybe include this content as a subsection of "Recover All Unsynced Local Changes" and give a different name?

The following rules determine how client reset handles object changes:

- Objects created locally that were not synced before client reset are synced.
- If an object is deleted on the server, but is modified on the recovering 
  client, the delete takes precedence and the client discards the update.
- If an object is deleted on the recovering client, but not the server, 
  then the client applies the delete instruction.
- In the case of conflicting updates to the same field, the client update 
  is applied.

However, the automatic recovery process can not handle a breaking schema change. 
In this case, you will need to implement a 

> :dotnet-sdk:`ManualRecoveryHandler <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.ManualRecoveryHandler.html>`.

Reviewer 3: This is not precise. You cannot recover from a breaking schema version with any of the handlers. The issue is that your C# models are already compiled and every time you open the Realm file, you'll end up with a client reset due to the wrong schema. Generally speaking, if automatic recovery fails, it's likely that manual recovery will not be possible, so the recommendation should be to display an alert to the user prompting them to update to a new version.

The new version may include some data recovery mechanisms, but those will need to be super custom and handled outside of the client reset mechanism.

  <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler.html#Realms_Sync_ErrorHandling_RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler_OnAfterReset>`, 
  which you can use to notify the user when the reset has completed successfully.

- :dotnet-sdk:`ManualResetFallback 
  <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler.html#Realms_Sync_ErrorHandling_RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler_ManualResetFallback>`, 
  which you implement to handle a reset failure. Your logic here should  
  be similar to that described for a 
  :ref:`ManualRecoveryHandler <dotnet-client-reset-manual-recovery>`.

The following example shows using each of these callbacks:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/dotnet/ClientResetExamples.snippet.RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler.cs
   :language: csharp

.. _dotnet-client-reset-discard-unsynced-changes:

Discard Unsynced Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This strategy **permanently deletes** all local unsynced changes 
made since the last successful sync. If you choose to use a 
``DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler``, the SDK restores your local realm file 
to a syncable state without closing the realm and while keeping notifications 

> fully working. If this process fails, it falls back again to a manual reset 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fully working. If this process fails, it falls back to a manual reset 
```

not falling back again. only 1 fall back here.

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 3
   :class: singlecol

A client reset error is a scenario where a client realm cannot sync 
data with the application backend. Clients in this state may continue to 
run and save data locally but cannot send or receive sync changesets 
until they perform a client reset. The Realm SDKs provide methods to 
automatically handle client resets under most scenarios.

Client reset scenarios occur when the server's history is incompatible with the 
client's history. The most common causes of client resets are described in 
:ref:`client-resets`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Client Reset Strategies
-----------------------
```

makes more sense to have this header up here on top of table of strategies

       (Default)
     - Recover all unsynced local changes
     - If recovery fails, this handler falls back to the ``DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler``, 
       which deletes all unsynced local changes. If the ``DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler`` 
       recovery fails, the handler falls back to a ``ManualRecoveryHandler``, which
       requires you to implement a manual recovery strategy.

   * - :dotnet-sdk:`RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler.html>`
     - Recover all unsynced local changes
     - If recovery fails, this handler falls back to a ``ManualRecoveryHandler``, 
       which requires you to implement a manual recovery strategy.

   * - :dotnet-sdk:`DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.html>`
     - Discard unsynced changes
     - This strategy *permanently deletes* all local unsynced changes made since 
       the last successful sync.

   * - :dotnet-sdk:`ManualRecoveryHandler <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.ManualRecoveryHandler.html>`
     - Manual recovery
     - Provides a way for you to implement your own recovery strategy.

> Client Reset Strategies
> -----------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The following sections describe the different strategies for handling a client 
reset and how you can use each of the ``ClientResetHandlers``.

Recover Unsynced Local Changes

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

```

In a client reset that does not involve a breaking schema change, the SDK 
integrates objects created locally that did not sync before the client reset. 
The following rules determine how conflicts are resolved when both the backend 
and the client make changes to the same object:

- If an object is deleted on the server, but is modified on the recovering 
  client, the delete takes precedence and the client discards the update.
- If an object is deleted on the recovering client, but not the server, 
  then the client applies the delete instruction.
- In the case of conflicting updates to the same field, the client update 
  is applied.

.. important:: Breaking Changes

   The recovery process cannot handle a breaking schema change. For 
   example, if you make a non-additive change to one or more of your Realm object 
   classes, the recovery process will fail. In this case, users will be 

>    required to update their client app.

Reviewer: would be good to link to the docs on breaking schema changes in this admonition. right now there's no explanation on the page of what a breaking schema change is. 

similar to swift sdk docs, could add a line like:

```rst
For information on breaking vs. non-breaking schema changes, see 
:ref:`Breaking vs. Non-Breaking Change Reference <breaking-change-quick-reference>`.
```

  You can use it to notify the user when the reset is complete.

- :dotnet-sdk:`ManualResetFallback <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.html#Realms_Sync_ErrorHandling_DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler_ManualResetFallback>`,
  which the SDK invokes if the reset fails. Your logic here should  
  be similar to that described for a 
  :ref:`ManualRecoveryHandler <dotnet-client-reset-manual-recovery>`.

The following example shows how you might implement a 
``DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler``:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/dotnet/ClientResetExamples.snippet.DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.cs
   :language: csharp

.. _dotnet-client-reset-manual-recovery:

Manual Recovery
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In most cases, you should use one of the other strategies for client resets. For 
those infrequent cases where you need to customize your data recovery process, 
select the 
:dotnet-sdk:`ManualRecoveryHandler <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.ManualRecoveryHandler.html#Realms_Sync_ErrorHandling_ManualRecoveryHandler__ctor_Realms_Sync_ErrorHandling_ClientResetHandlerBase_ClientResetCallback_>` 

> handler. 

Reviewer: per nikola's point in [a recent comment](https://github.com/mongodb/docs-realm/pull/2219#discussion_r1003417060):

> so the recommendation should be to display an alert to the user prompting them to update to a new version

it would be beneficial to add content here noting that this is likely the recommended thing to do in the manual recovery handler.

see the swift SDK documentation on this - https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm/sdk/swift/sync/handle-sync-errors/#manual-client-reset-fallback

and any changes on the device are lost when the app is restarted and the 
reset happens.

The .NET SDK provides the option to specify a client 
reset strategy in your :dotnet-sdk:`PartitionSyncConfiguration 
<reference/Realms.Sync.PartitionSyncConfiguration.html>` and 
:dotnet-sdk:`FlexibleSyncConfiguration 
<reference/Realms.Sync.FlexibleSyncConfiguration.html>`. The 
:dotnet-sdk:`ClientResetHandler <reference/Realms.Sync.SyncConfigurationBase.html#Realms_Sync_SyncConfigurationBase_ClientResetHandler>` 
property can be set to one of the following:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 30 30 50
   
   * - Handler
     - Strategy
     - Notes

   * - :dotnet-sdk:`RecoverOrDiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.RecoverOrDiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.html>`
       This is the default handler.

>      - Recover all Unsynced Local Changes

Reviewer: what's up with the capitalization on this column? why are not the first word of the text here capitalized? alternatively if it should be full title case, then "All" should have capitalized A.

     - Recover all Unsynced Local Changes
     - If recovery fails, this handler falls back to a ManualRecoveryHandler, which
       requires you to implement a recovery strategy.

   * - :dotnet-sdk:`DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.html>`
     - Discard Unsynced Changes
     - This strategy *permanently deletes* all local unsynced changes made since 
       the last successful sync.

   * - :dotnet-sdk:`ManualRecoveryHandler <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.ManualRecoveryHandler.html>`
     - Manual Recovery
     - Provides a way for you to implement your own recovery strategy.

Client Reset Strategies
-----------------------

The following sections describe the different strategies for handling a client 
reset and how you can use each of the ``ClientResetHandlers``.

Recover All Unsynced Local Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This strategy attempts to recover all unsynced local changes automatically. There 
are two client reset handlers that take this approach:

RecoverOrDiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler

> ======================================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``````````````````````````````````````
```

usually we do backtick (`) for next lvl down

Author: good catch

This is the default handler, as it provides the most robust recovery process. If the 

> recovery process fails, it falls back to the DiscardLocalReset strategy explained 

Author: @LaPeste I'll need more info on "flagged...as not allowed to execute automatic recovery." if we're going to dive into that here:
- Why would a realm be marked as such? 
- By witch process is it flagged? 
- Can that be prevented? 
- Are there any other reasons automatic recover would fail? 
- Can we distinguish on the client side, or do we care?

below. If that process fails, it falls back again to a Manual Reset strategy. 
This handler provides the following callback methods:

- :dotnet-sdk:`OnBeforeReset 

>   <>`, 

Reviewer: this just takes you to SDK landing page, not the specific SDK member. 

ditto other links in this list

Author: known issue until the sdk docs are updated

  which the SDK invokes prior to the client reset. You can use this callback to notify 
  the user before the reset begins.

- :dotnet-sdk:`OnAfterRecovery
  <>`, 

>   which the SDK invokes if -- and only if -- the automatic reset completes successfully. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  which the SDK invokes if *and only if* the automatic reset completes successfully. 
```

nit i don't think `--` looks too good rendered on docs site

  You can use it to notify the user that the client reset is complete.

- :dotnet-sdk:`OnAfterDiscard 
  <>`, 
  which the SDK invokes only if the automatic client reset fails **and** the discard 

>   local strategy *succeeds*. If the discard strategy fails, this callback is not 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  local strategy succeeds. If the discard strategy fails, this callback is not 
```

nit: not sure what this adds

  invoked.

- :dotnet-sdk:`ManualResetFallback 
  <>`, 
  which the SDK invokes only if the automatic 
  recovery and the discard strategy have failed. You implement this callback to 
  handle the reset failure. Your logic here will 

>   be similar to that described for a 

Reviewer: not sure if 'will be' is the correct verb modifier here. perhaps just 'is' or 'should be'.

  :ref:`ManualRecoveryHandler <manual_recovery_handler>`.

The following example shows using each of these callbacks:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/dotnet/ClientResetExamples.snippet.RecoverOrDiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.cs
   :language: csharp

RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler
=============================

Like the ``RecoverOrDiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler``, this handler attempts to 

> recover all unsynced local changes automatically. Unlike 
> ``RecoverOrDiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler``, however, this handler does not try a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
recover all unsynced local changes automatically. However, unlike 
``RecoverOrDiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler``, this handler does not try a 
```

DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler if the automatic recovery fails. The handler 
provides the following callback methods:

- :dotnet-sdk:`OnBeforeReset 

>   <>`, 

Reviewer: again missing link paths inside the `<>` for items in this list

  which you can use to notify the user before the reset begins.

- :dotnet-sdk:`OnAfterReset 
  <>`, 
  which you can use to notify the user when the reset has completed successfully.

- :dotnet-sdk:`ManualResetFallback 
  <>`, 
  which you implement to handle a reset failure. Your logic here will 

>   be similar to that described for a 

Reviewer: ditto above comment about "will be"

  :ref:`ManualRecoveryHandler <manual_recovery_handler>`.

The following example shows using each of these callbacks:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/dotnet/ClientResetExamples.snippet.RecoverUnsyncedChangesHandler.cs
   :language: csharp

Discard Unsynced Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This strategy **permanently deletes** all local unsynced changes 
made since the last successful sync. When you specify a 
``DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler``, the SDK restores your local realm file 

> to a syncable state without closing the realm and while maintaining notifications. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to a syncable state without closing the realm and while maintaining notifications fully working. 
```

This handler provides the following callback methods:

- :dotnet-sdk:`OnBeforeReset 
  <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.html#Realms_Sync_ErrorHandling_DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler_OnBeforeReset>`, 
  which the SDK invokes prior to the client reset. You can use this callback to 
  notify the user before the reset begins.

- :dotnet-sdk:`OnAfterReset 
  <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.html#Realms_Sync_ErrorHandling_DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler_OnAfterReset>`, 

>   which the SDK invokes if -- and only if -- the reset completes successfully. 

Reviewer: ditto above comment about "-- and only if --"

  You can use it to notify the user when the reset is complete.

- :dotnet-sdk:`ManualResetFallback <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.html#Realms_Sync_ErrorHandling_DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler_ManualResetFallback>`,
  which the SDK invokes if the reset fails. Your logic here will 

>   be similar to that described for a 

Reviewer: ditto above comment about "will be"

  :ref:`ManualRecoveryHandler <manual_recovery_handler>`.

> The following example shows how you might implement a DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how you might implement a ``DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler``:
```

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/dotnet/ClientResetExamples.snippet.DiscardUnsyncedChangesHandler.cs
   :language: csharp

.. _manual_recovery_handler:

Manual Recovery
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Use this strategy to customize your data recovery process. You use the 

Author: @LaPeste - OK, but since all the other handlers fall back to this (like in a destructive schema change), I'm not sure we should say it's only be advanced users. No?

> :dotnet-sdk:`ManualRecoveryHandler(ClientResetException) <reference/Realms.Sync.ErrorHandling.ManualRecoveryHandler.html#Realms_Sync_ErrorHandling_ManualRecoveryHandler__ctor_Realms_Sync_ErrorHandling_ClientResetHandlerBase_ClientResetCallback_>` 

Reviewer 2: Because the other 3 handlers never have a link. So mostly consistency. You can put links in all of them or none I'd say.

> handler to do this. 

Author: ??

> handler to do this. 

Reviewer 2: This was a little tricky because of the chars per line that you use. I was trying to change a sentence but to do so I had to do 3 different suggestions, because the line was split in 3. Sorry if the outcome was wrong/unclear. I wanted to suggest to have the sentence on the lines of: 
> Use this strategy to customize your data recovery process. You select this strategy by assigning ``ManualRecoveryHandler`` to ``ClientResetHandler``.

> handler to do this. 

Author: Removed this note because of a lower comment/discussion.

.. note:: Fallbacks

>    The other handlers fallback to a manual strategy if the other options fail 

Author: I updated this and am wondering if you saw latest;  here it is:
  
   While the manual strategy should only be used in edge cases, the other 
   handlers might fall back to a manual strategy (as in the case of a destructive 
   schema change). The logic you use in those handlers is similar to the logic 
   described here.

>    (as in the case of a destructive schema change). 

Reviewer: i find the use of "other" twice in this sentence confusing. could you rephrase to be more precise?

Within the ``ManualRecoveryHandler``, you dispose the existing realm, and then 
call the :dotnet-sdk:`InitiateClientReset() <reference/Realms.Sync.Exceptions.ClientResetException.html#Realms_Sync_Exceptions_ClientResetException_InitiateClientReset>` 
method.

> The following example demonstrates implementing the ManualRecoveryHandler:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates implementing the ``ManualRecoveryHandler``:
```

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/dotnet/ClientResetExamples.snippet.ManualClientReset.cs
   :language: csharp

.. important::

>    Be sure to use the overload of the ``ManualRecoveryHandler`` that takes a 
>    :dotnet-sdk:`ClientResetException <reference/Realms.Sync.Exceptions.ClientResetException.html>` 
>    parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Be sure to use the overload of the ``ManualRecoveryHandler`` by including a 
   :dotnet-sdk:`ClientResetException <reference/Realms.Sync.Exceptions.ClientResetException.html>` 
   parameter.
```

this was a little unclear to me. tried to rephrase to make clearer that method over by taking this param (is this correct understanding?)

Author: removed as per Andrea's comments.
